Q1
Find the names of all reviewers who rated Gone with the Wind. 

select name from reviewer
where rid in (select rid from rating where mid = (select mid from movie where title = 'Gone with the Wind'));

Q2
For any rating where the reviewer is the same as the director of the movie, return the reviewer name, movie title, and number of stars

select name,title,stars
from movie a,reviewer b,rating c
where a.director = b.name and a.mid = c.mid and b.rid = c.rid; 

Q3
Return all reviewer names and movie names together in a single list, alphabetized. (Sorting by the first name of the reviewer and first word in the title is fine; no need for special processing on last names or removing "The".) 

select name from reviewer
union
select title as name from movie
order by name;

Q4
Find the titles of all movies not reviewed by Chris Jackson.

select title
from movie 
where mid not in
(select a.mid from movie a,reviewer b,rating c
where a.mid = c.mid and b.rid = c.rid and b.name = 'Chris Jackson');

Q5
For all pairs of reviewers such that both reviewers gave a rating to the same movie, return the names of both reviewers. Eliminate duplicates, don't pair reviewers with themselves, and include each pair only once. For each pair, return the names in the pair in alphabetical order. 

select distinct a.name, b.name from
(reviewer join rating on reviewer.rid = rating.rid) a join (reviewer join rating on reviewer.rid = rating.rid) b
on a.mid = b.mid 
where a.name < b.name
order by a.name, b.name;

Q6
For each rating that is the lowest (fewest stars) currently in the database, return the reviewer name, movie title, and number of stars. 

select name,title,stars
from movie a,reviewer b,rating c
where a.mid = c.mid and b.rid = c.rid and stars = (select min(stars) from rating);

Q7
List movie titles and average ratings, from highest-rated to lowest-rated. If two or more movies have the same average rating, list them in alphabetical order. 

select title,avg(stars) as avgrating
from movie a join rating b on a.mid=b.mid
group by title
order by avgrating desc,title;

Q8
Find the names of all reviewers who have contributed three or more ratings. 

select name
from reviewer a inner join rating b on a.rid = b.rid
group by name
having count(stars) >= 3;

Q9
Some directors directed more than one movie. For all such directors, return the titles of all movies directed by them, along with the director name. Sort by director name, then movie title. 

select title,director
from movie
where director in (select director from movie group by director having count(director) > 1)
order by director, title;

Q10
Find the movie(s) with the highest average rating. Return the movie title(s) and average rating. (Hint: This query is more difficult to write in SQLite than other systems; you might think of it as finding the highest average rating and then choosing the movie(s) with that average rating.) 

select title,avgrating2 from 
(select mid,avg(stars) as avgrating2 from rating group by mid
having avgrating2=
(select max(avgrating) from
(select mid,avg(stars) as avgrating from rating group by mid))) a join movie b on a.mid = b.mid;

Q11
Find the movie(s) with the lowest average rating. Return the movie title(s) and average rating. (Hint: This query may be more difficult to write in SQLite than other systems; you might think of it as finding the lowest average rating and then choosing the movie(s) with that average rating.) 

select title,avgrating2 from 
(select mid,avg(stars) as avgrating2 from rating group by mid
having avgrating2=
(select min(avgrating) from
(select mid,avg(stars) as avgrating from rating group by mid))) a join movie b on a.mid = b.mid;

Q12
For each director, return the director's name together with the title(s) of the movie(s) they directed that received the highest rating among all of their movies, and the value of that rating. Ignore movies whose director is NULL. 

select distinct director, title, stars
from movie a,rating b
where a.mid = b.mid and director is not null and
stars = (select max(stars) from rating natural join movie group by director having director = a.director);