Q1
Find the names of all students who are friends with someone named Gabriel. 

select name from highschooler
where id in (select id1 from friend where id2 in (select id from highschooler where name='Gabriel'));

Q2
For every student who likes someone 2 or more grades younger than themselves, return that student's name and grade, and the name and grade of the student they like. 

select a.name,a.grade,b.name,b.grade
from highschooler a,highschooler b,likes c
where id1 = a.id and id2 = b.id and (a.grade - b.grade) >= 2;

Q3
For every pair of students who both like each other, return the name and grade of both students. Include each pair only once, with the two names in alphabetical order. 

select a.name,a.grade,b.name,b.grade
from highschooler a,highschooler b,likes c
where c.id1 = a.id and c.id2 = b.id and a.name < b.name and
exists (select * from likes d where d.id1 = c.id2 and d.id2 = c.id1);

Q4
Find all students who do not appear in the Likes table (as a student who likes or is liked) and return their names and grades. Sort by grade, then by name within each grade.

select name,grade
from highschooler
where id not in (select id1 from likes) and id not in (select id2 from likes);

Q5
For every situation where student A likes student B, but we have no information about whom B likes (that is, B does not appear as an ID1 in the Likes table), return A and B's names and grades.

select a.name,a.grade,b.name,b.grade
from highschooler a,highschooler b,likes c
where c.id1 = a.id and c.id2 = b.id and b.id not in (select id1 from likes);

Q6
Find names and grades of students who only have friends in the same grade. Return the result sorted by grade, then by name within each grade. 

select d.name,d.grade
from highschooler d
where not exists 
(select a.name,a.grade
from highschooler a, highschooler b, friend c
where a.grade != b.grade and a.id = c.id1 and b.id = c.id2 and a.id = d.id)
order by grade,name;

Q7
For each student A who likes a student B where the two are not friends, find if they have a friend C in common (who can introduce them!). For all such trios, return the name and grade of A, B, and C. 

select a.name,a.grade,b.name,b.grade,c.name,c.grade
from highschooler a,highschooler b,highschooler c,likes e
where a.id = e.id1 and b.id = e.id2 
and a.id in (select id1 from friend where id2 = c.id)
and b.id in (select id1 from friend where id2 = c.id) 
and a.id not in (select id1 from friend where id2=b.id);

Q8
Find the difference between the number of students in the school and the number of different first names. 

select(
(select count(*) from highschooler)
-
(select count(distinct name) from highschooler)
);

Q9
Find the name and grade of all students who are liked by more than one other student. 

select name,grade
from highschooler
where 1 < (select count(id1) from likes where id2=id);
